there are planets where it rains glass
acid molten iron and diamonds you're
going to need a tougher umbrella there
a day on venus is longer than a year it
takes the planet 243 earth days to
rotate around itself
and only 225 days to make a full circle
around the sun
space isn't entirely cold it can get
scorching hot when in direct starlight
the movement of galaxies and clusters
billions of light years away from us
suggest there's some enormously massive
body
outside the visible universe
after billions of years the expansion of
the universe will make the space
so sparse that we won't be able to see
the stars in the sky
at all astronomers can predict asteroids
going towards the earth
but only to a degree and only when
they're close enough
in about 4 billion years time the milky
way and andromeda galaxies will collide
but will probably not even notice it
about 5 million years ago the
supermassive black hole at the center of
our galaxy
launched a star from itself and is now
traveling through the milky way
10 times faster than any other star out
there
there are planets that aren't bound to
any star orbit and
aimlessly wander through outer space
some stars out there take the energy of
other stars to burn for longer
neutron stars are some of the smallest
yet the most
massive objects in space they're usually
about 12 miles in diameter
but are several times heavier than the
sun oh and they
also spin about 600 times per second
cold welding is a phenomenon in space
when two pieces of the same metal
join together without any trouble and
heat
about 700 million years ago i wasn't
around then
a mysterious event that occurred may
have turned venus into the place it is
now
admittedly astronomers can't see the
surface of the planet directly
because it's covered with dense layers
of thick clouds
but space missions that have been sent
to the hot planet found that venus is
peppered with
fire-breathing volcanoes massive
mountains
countless craters and gigantic lava
plains
the temperatures on the planet are so
incredibly high
that they could melt lead and the
atmospheric pressure is so immense
that it would instantly crush any living
being reckless enough to set
foot on it if that's not enough the
atmosphere of the planet is
filled with noxious clouds of sulfuric
acid
which smells worse than rotten eggs
carbon dioxide
the main component of venus's atmosphere
along with the infamous sulfuric acid
creates a powerful greenhouse effect as
a result
the lower atmosphere and the surface of
the planet are some of the hottest
places in the whole solar system
but the newest scientific theory claims
that venus could have had
a pleasant stable climate for billions
of years before
something went wrong astronomers did
thorough research
and built a model of a virtualized
venus-like world
this model demonstrated that for most of
its history
the hot planet had oceans with liquid
water
adequate temperatures and stable
tectonic plates
in fact the planet resembled earth as it
used to be at the beginning of its life
scientists suppose that this period of
earth-like development could have lasted
for more than
3 billion years so during that time
the planet was most likely covered with
oceans which were from
30 to 1000 feet deep also
some water was locked in the soil of the
planet on top of that
venus had stable temperatures of 68 to
122 degrees fahrenheit
which you have to admit it were quite
pleasant
and not that different from the
temperatures on earth nowadays
so what i'm getting at is that for 3
billion years
right until something irrevocable
happened 700 million years ago
venus could have been habitable
saturn's rings are very thin compared to
its size
if you had a scale model of the planet
that was three feet wide
the rings would be ten thousand times
thinner than a razor blade
mercury is a few billion years old in
scientists discovered some abnormalities
on the planet's surface
showing that it's getting smaller after
more research
they found out that mercury hasn't
finished cooling down yet
even though venus is the hottest planet
in our solar system
it still has snow but it's not what you
expect
its nose metals and rains acid not a
great vacation spot
a day on uranus lasts 17 hours 14
minutes and
24 seconds but get this the planet has a
tilt of around 98 degrees
and that makes a season on the gas giant
last 21
earth years mars has two moons
phobos and deimos in the next 30 to 50
million years
mars gravitational forces will tear
phobos apart
and it will likely result in the
formation of a ring around the planet
earth we've reached our home planet the
densest
in the solar system at the earth's
center there's a core that takes up 15
percent of the planet's volume
it consists of two parts the outer and
the inner core
the inner core is a solid ball made of
iron and nickel
its radius is 760 miles give or take
which makes 20 percent of the entire
earth's radius
and 80 percent of the moon's radius the
1500 mile
thick outer core is liquid it also
consists of iron and nickel
but it's not under enough pressure to be
solid
the temperature at the boundary of our
planet's inner and outer core
is 10 800 degrees that's as hot as the
surface of the sun
and the pressure there is three and a
third million times the atmospheric
pressure at sea level
the mantle surrounds the outer core this
layer is about
1800 miles thick and makes nearly 84
of the entire earth's volume it consists
of silicate rocks
rich in iron and magnesium the crust is
a relatively thin layer that takes up
only
one percent of the earth's volume hey i
like thin crust
along with the upper part of the mantel
it's broken into tectonic plates
they move as fast as your fingernails
grow and let heat escape from the
earth's interior
the crust is mostly made up of oxygen
silicon
aluminum iron and other minerals
mars but it's time we leave our planet
behind
and move to the red planet it's the last
of the inner planets
which are also called terrestrial since
they're made up of rock and minerals
mars has a core made mostly of iron
nickel and sulfur
it's between 900 and 1200 miles across
the core doesn't move that's why mars
lacks a planet-wide magnetic field
the weak magnetic field it has is just
0.01 percent of the earth's
the mantle surrounding the core is
composed of thick
silicates oxygen and some other minerals
you can probably compare it with soft
rocky toothpaste
yeah brush your teeth with that the mars
mantel is also much thinner than the
earth's
it's just 800 to 1100 miles thick
the planet's thin crust consists of
volcanic basalt rock
astronomers believe it isn't broken into
tectonic plates
and remains in one piece the crust is
covered with
fine reddish dust that looks like talcum
powder
i like my crust covered with tomato
sauce and cheese
saturn welcome to the planet with the
winds that travel at more than 1100
miles per hour at the equator
it's also the planet with the big rings
saturn is mostly composed of hydrogen
and helium
with some traces of methane ammonia and
water
but it contains more sulfur than jupiter
which gives the planet a smog like
orange hue
the atmosphere of saturn isn't really
different from its surface
but the deeper you go the higher the
pressure becomes
and hydrogen becomes liquid further to
the center of the planet
this liquefied gas turns into metallic
hydrogen
like jupiter saturn might have a rocky
core with hydrogen and helium
surrounding it
on the other hand even if it's made up
of rocky material
the core can still be liquid saturn is
the least dense planet in the solar
system
it has 1 8 the average earth's density
the planet is 95 times more massive than
earth
uranus look at this blue green planet on
our way
it's one of the two ice giants in our
solar system
it's composed of more ice than gas
at the very center of uranus there is a
rocky core
small just half the earth's mass
compared to other planets
uranus core is rather cool only 9000
degrees fahrenheit
an ice mantle surrounds the solid core
and that's the largest portion of the
planet about 80
it's also not the ice you might be
thinking about
it's a hot dense fluid made up of water
ammonia ice and methane
sometimes referred to as a water ammonia
ocean
uranus's atmosphere is mostly hydrogen
and helium
but it has its blue-green color because
of methane gas
that absorbs the red light neptune
that's the final stop of our
unusual journey and the second of the
two outer planets known as
ice giants it's also the windiest place
in the solar system
clouds of frozen methane are whipped
across the planet
at a speed of 1200 miles per hour
neptune's core
is solid and consists mostly of iron and
some other metals
its mass is 1.2 times bigger than that
of earth
the temperature inside reaches 9000
degrees
astronomers also believe that at a depth
of 4500 miles
there might be a diamond layer where
it's raining diamond crystals
over the planet's core there's a large
mantle a superheated region of liquid
with the temperatures getting as high as
3000 to 8500 degrees
give or take the mantle is rich in
methane ammonia and water
and equals up to 15 times earth's mass
neptune's atmosphere forms five to ten
percent of the planet's mass
and stretches twenty percent of the way
down to its core
it consists of eighty percent hydrogen
nineteen percent helium
and a bit of methane gas just like with
uranus the methane gas
is what gives the planet its bluish hue
and its stinky pew
astronomers know for sure that the
universe is growing bigger
and the speed at which it's ballooning
is increasing all the time
but if the whole thing is swelling into
something bigger
then it must have some kind of an edge
right
it's unlikely that people will ever find
out but if so
then what would it be a ginormous brick
wall
and then nothing an abyss that leads to
nowhere
the most common theory is that the
universe is shaped in such a way
that it can't have an edge but it's not
the only idea
another theory is even more difficult to
comprehend
the universe is indeed infinite and
our part of it isn't that unique it
means that
somewhere out there there's another you
or rather
other you one of them is just a bit
shorter
another wears their hair in different
ways and
a third one is identical to you in all
possible ways
hey good looking oh yeah there's also a
theory about a multi-universe
that consists of many smaller universes
and the universe we live in
is just a tiny bubble among other
similar bubbles
those scientists who support this idea
are also sure that bubble universes can
come into contact with one another
then gravity starts to flow between them
and when
two or three universes connect a big
bang occurs
just like the one that created our home
universe
everything on earth and everything
people have managed to see in space with
the help of telescopes and other
instruments
is normal matter it's made up of atoms
and molecules
and adds up to less than five percent of
the universe
almost three-quarters of the universe is
dark energy
astronomers wouldn't even know the thing
existed if several decades ago
they hadn't found out that the expansion
of the universe
wasn't slowing down quite the opposite
it was accelerating
it meant there had to be some enigmatic
force that counteracted gravity
it got dubbed dark energy
our sun is insanely massive want proof
99.86 percent of all the mass in the
solar system
is the mass of the sun in particular the
hydrogen and helium it's made of
the remaining 0.14 percent is mostly the
mass of the solar system's eight planets
the sun's atmosphere is hotter than the
surface of the star
the surface temperature reaches 10 000
degrees fahrenheit
but the upper atmosphere heats up to
millions of degrees
venus is a champ when it comes to
volcanoes the planet has about 1600
major ones
but none of them is known to erupt
the ocean on jupiter is larger than any
other in the solar system
but unlike earth's oceans it's made not
of water
but of metallic hydrogen the ocean's
depth is a mind-blowing 25
000 miles that's almost the same as the
distance around earth
with an average diameter of 2160 miles
the moon is the fifth largest satellite
in the solar system
after jupiter's satellites ganymede
callisto and eo
and saturn's titan
there's a supermassive black hole 250
million light years away from us
it hums the deepest sound ever detected
from any object in the universe
it's 57 octaves lower than the middle c
on your piano
that's one quadrillion which is one with
15 zeros
times deeper than what we can hear
the milky way galaxy and the andromeda
galaxy
are going to meet in 3.75 billion years
they're moving towards each other at a
breakneck speed
when the two galaxies collide they'll
form a huge
elliptical galaxy i won't be around then
mercury is a few billion years old in
scientists discover some abnormalities
on the planet's surface
showing that it's getting smaller after
more research
they found out that mercury hadn't
finished cooling down yet
astronauts in space can lose about one
percent of their muscle mass
each month to prevent this they have to
stick to an exercise regimen
that lasts two hours every single day